v5.4.0 (#3764)
mui-org/material-ui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.4.0

_Jan 28, 2022_

A big thanks to the 9 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🚣 Introduce [variable row height](https://mui.com/components/data-grid/rows/#variable-row-height) (#438) @DanailH

> Allows for setting a row-specific height. Before all rows had the same height, now you can set the height on a per-row basis.

Reviewer: The comma is missing.

```suggestion
Allows for setting a row-specific height.
By default, all rows have the same height, but now you can set the height on a per-row basis.
```

> Allows for setting a row-specific height. Before all rows had the same height, now you can set the height on a per-row basis.
> 
> ```tsx
> <DataGrid 
>   getRowHeight={
>     ({ id }: GridRowHeightParams) => (id % 2 === 0 ? 100 : null)
>   }
> />
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Allows for setting a row-specific height. Before all rows had the same height, now you can set the height on a per-row basis.
  
  ```tsx
  <DataGrid 
    getRowHeight={
      ({ id }: GridRowHeightParams) => (id % 2 === 0 ? 100 : null)
    }
  />
```
```

Move it under bullet point for better alignment?

- 🎁 Add new CSV export option: [`getRowsToExport`](https://mui.com/components/data-grid/export/#custom-exported-content) (#3687) @flaviendelangle

- 📚 Documentation improvements
- 🐞 Bugfixes

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.4.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.4.0`

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] Add l10n support for 'is any of' (#3746) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Add new CSV export option: `getRowsToExport` (#3687) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Clean params of `onCellEditCommit` (#3693) @valenfv
- [DataGrid] Create a new lookup with all the filtered rows, collapsed or not (#3736) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix Alt+c being ignored on some systems (#3660) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Fix `isRowSelectable` when `paginationMode='server'` (#3647) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix browser keyboard shortcuts not working when header cell is focused (#3692) @valenfv
- [DataGrid] Fix focus on checkbox cells (#3501) @alexfauquette

> - [DataGrid] Only update the visibility status of the updates columns when calling `apiRef.current.updateRows` (#3735) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Only update the visibility status of the updated columns when calling `apiRef.current.updateRows` (#3735) @flaviendelangle
```

- [DataGrid] Prevent commit if `preProcessEditCellProps` resolves with an error (#3612) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Update selected rows when turning off `checkboxSelection` (#3684) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Variable row height (#3218) @DanailH
- [DataGridPro] Call useGridColumnPinning before useGridColumns (#3676) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGridPro] Fix grid cell losing focus when scrolling with keyboard (#3667) @cherniavskii
- [DataGridPro] Fix missing `styleOverrides` on pinned columns (#3733) @alexfauquette
- [DataGridPro] Remove function overloading for `useGridApiRef` (#3666) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Improve French (frFR) locale (#3739) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Improve Italian (itIT) locale (#3744) @destegabry

### Docs

- [docs] Fix broken code example on the localization page (#3742) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Fix typo in column visibility example (#3734) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Fix typo on `columnVisibilityModel` (#3723) @alexfauquette
- [docs] Improve sorting documentation page (#3564) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Improve v5.3.0 release notes (#3722) @cherniavskii
- [docs] Prepare scripts + E2E tests for migration (#3515) @siriwatknp

> - [docs] Update to the kind of support provided (#3530) @oliviertassinari

Reviewer 3: I don't understand the title of this PR 

```suggestion
- [docs] Clarify what is the professional support (#3530) @oliviertassinari
```

> - [docs] Update to the kind of support provided (#3530) @oliviertassinari

Reviewer 3: I don't understand the title of this PR 

```suggestion
- [docs] Clarify what is the professional support (#3530) @oliviertassinari
```

Author: I was not even sure to keep it in the changelog

Reviewer: We can keep it but changing the message.

### Core

> - [core] Add eslint rule to force default export equals to filename in doc (#3674) @alexfauquette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [core] Add ESLint rule to force default export equals to filename in documentation (#3674) @alexfauquette
```

> - [core] Fix `l10n` script not updating csCZ locale (#3748) @cherniavskii

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [core] Fix `l10n` script not updating `csCZ` locale (#3748) @cherniavskii
```

- [core] Generate CHANGELOG from GitHub API (#3313) @alexfauquette

> - [core] Isolate selectors from different instances (#3663) @m4theushw

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [core] Isolate selectors from different grid instances (#3663) @m4theushw
```

- [test] Improve test detection (#3728) @m4theushw
- [test] Include module augmentation for Chai custom matchers (#3754) @m4theushw
- [test] Remove a useless async (#3675) @alexfauquette

> - [test] Remove last @ts-expect-error (#3762) @m4theushw

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [test] Remove remaining `@ts-expect-error` (#3762) @m4theushw
```

- [test] Skip test on Firefox (#3752) @m4theushw

> - [test] Wait for flags to load (#3726) @m4theushw

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [test] Wait for flags to load before creating snapshots (#3726) @m4theushw
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.4.0

_Jan 28, 2022_

A big thanks to the 9 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🚣 Introduce [variable row height](https://mui.com/components/data-grid/rows/#variable-row-height) (#438) @DanailH

  Allows for setting a row-specific height.
  By default, all rows have the same height, but now you can set the height on a per-row basis.

  ```tsx
  <DataGrid 
    getRowHeight={
      ({ id }: GridRowHeightParams) => (id % 2 === 0 ? 100 : null)
    }
  />
  ```

- 🎁 Add new CSV export option: [`getRowsToExport`](https://mui.com/components/data-grid/export/#custom-exported-content) (#3687) @flaviendelangle

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

- 📚 Documentation improvements
- 🐞 Bugfixes

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.4.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.4.0`

#### Changes

> - [DataGrid] Add l10n support for 'is any of' (#3746) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Add l10n support for `is any of` (#3746) @alexfauquette
```

> - [DataGrid] Add new CSV export option: `getRowsToExport` (#3687) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Add new CSV `getRowsToExport` option (#3687) @flaviendelangle
```

- [DataGrid] Clean params of `onCellEditCommit` (#3693) @valenfv
- [DataGrid] Create a new lookup with all the filtered rows, collapsed or not (#3736) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix Alt+c being ignored on some systems (#3660) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Fix `isRowSelectable` when `paginationMode='server'` (#3647) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix browser keyboard shortcuts not working when header cell is focused (#3692) @valenfv
- [DataGrid] Fix focus on checkbox cells (#3501) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Only update the visibility status of the updated columns when calling `apiRef.current.updateRows` (#3735) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Prevent commit if `preProcessEditCellProps` resolves with an error (#3612) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Update selected rows when turning off `checkboxSelection` (#3684) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Variable row height (#3218) @DanailH

> - [DataGridPro] Call useGridColumnPinning before useGridColumns (#3676) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [DataGridPro] Call `useGridColumnPinning` before `useGridColumns` (#3676) @flaviendelangle
```

- [DataGridPro] Fix grid cell losing focus when scrolling with keyboard (#3667) @cherniavskii
- [DataGridPro] Fix missing `styleOverrides` on pinned columns (#3733) @alexfauquette
- [DataGridPro] Remove function overloading for `useGridApiRef` (#3666) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Improve French (frFR) locale (#3739) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Improve Italian (itIT) locale (#3744) @destegabry

### Docs

- [docs] Fix broken code example on the localization page (#3742) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Fix typo in column visibility example (#3734) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Fix typo on `columnVisibilityModel` (#3723) @alexfauquette
- [docs] Improve sorting documentation page (#3564) @flaviendelangle

> - [docs] Improve v5.3.0 release notes (#3722) @cherniavskii

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [docs] Improve `v5.3.0` release notes (#3722) @cherniavskii
```

> - [docs] Prepare scripts + E2E tests for migration (#3515) @siriwatknp

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [docs] Prepare scripts and E2E tests for migration (#3515) @siriwatknp
```

- [docs] Update to the kind of support provided (#3530) @oliviertassinari

### Core

- [core] Add ESLint rule to force default export equals to filename in documentation (#3674) @alexfauquette
- [core] Fix `l10n` script not updating `csCZ` locale (#3748) @cherniavskii
- [core] Generate CHANGELOG from GitHub API (#3313) @alexfauquette
- [core] Isolate selectors from different grid instances (#3663) @m4theushw
- [test] Improve test detection (#3728) @m4theushw
- [test] Include module augmentation for Chai custom matchers (#3754) @m4theushw

> - [test] Remove a useless async (#3675) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [test] Remove a useless `async` (#3675) @alexfauquette
```
